We're working on an iOS game called Finger Race (this name will probably change). It's a multiplayer game that can be played by two or more people on one screen. Players will start off with a finger on their starting position, which is a square target. When the game starts, each target moves to a new position. The players are required to keep their fingers on the screen and drag them to their new target. As soon as a player reaches their next target, it moves to a new position. They repeat this process until a player collects N total targets (N has not yet been decided). We're hoping that the Twister-like fight for screen space will make this a fun and competitive game. It could really be played by anyone looking for a local multiplayer game. It only takes a few seconds to learn how to play, and the difficulty level only depends on your opponent's skill. Therefore, the game will be easy to play for beginners, yet still challenging for experts.

Most of the technical work will go towards finger tracking and determining target positions. These positions will be calculated differently for each player, and they will also depend on how far they are into the game. This way, we can make it more or less difficult depending on whether a player is winning or losing. We can also make it more difficult for both players towards the end of the game. We could even be cruel and try to make peoples' fingers crash into each other. The exact details of these methods will be determined with play-testing and iteration.

There will be four major "views" for this app. The first one is the start screen. It has two visible buttons: one for help and one for stats. To start the game, the players simply place their finger on their half of the screen. There will be basic instructions to help them understand that concept.                            

Once they place their fingers down, the game is started. Here is a mockup of an example match. The circles represent the location of the players' fingers. The circles might have context based animations, like pulsing when a target is collected. Note that there are no scores displayed on the screen. We want to make the scores obvious through animations and similar indicators. We can make it a little harder for the losing player so that you know who is ahead and who is behind. We could even change the appearance of those circles to indicate who is currently winning.                   

Once a player reaches N targets, the game is over. Here is the win screen. There are two numbers on the screen. They are counting each players' wins throughout a single session. Hopefully people will want to play many games in one session. This would tally all of those games, at least until you reset (if you start playing with another person).

This next view is the stats screen. It can be reached from that button on the start screen. It can display statistics like total wins, or the average time that a player needs to go from one target to another (measured in seconds..obviously lower is better). These stats, as well as any additional stats we come up with, will be integrated with Game Center.

We aren't really dividing up the work any particular way. We're both just working on everything equally.

We should definitely have a working game, with all of these views implemented, by May 4th. However, we're focusing mostly on gameplay, so that's where most of our attention will go. Because of this, we might not complete things like Game Center integration and complicated statistics for our first working version. After May 4th, we're going to do mostly play-testing and iteration, so we can tweak the gameplay mechanics. Our first version will hopefully be really fun to play, but it will get better with time.

Finger Race - by Emmett Butler & Evan Moore